---
geometry: "left=1.5cm,right=1.5cm,top=2.5cm,bottom=1.5cm"
---

## BIO425 / 790 Homework 1
# Due February 16th by the end of the day. Total points 99.999.

*Upload .pdfs or .doc files containing written answer to the question*
*a screencapture (not picture from smartphone) of you Google Collab, completed quiz etc.*
*Please upload everything in a single document, as a file to the homework entry on the Blackboard's course page*
*The Google Collab output screencapture should be clean code, without errors*

**Late homeworks will not be accepted, and will be graded as zero**

# Question 1, 33.333 points.

Complete the quiz from this link on the [Intact database](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/training/online/courses/network-analysis-of-protein-interaction-data-an-introduction/quiz-check-your-learning/)
You will need to go over the [tutorial materials](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/training/online/courses/network-analysis-of-protein-interaction-data-an-introduction/) from Intact which we covered in our first lecture.

# Question 2, 33.333 points

* Using the following [data file](https://easyupload.io/rtfs5t) visualize the network with the labels on the nodes. 
* Find the longest (simple) path in the graph as with the code we showed in the Google Collab in the lecture
* Which nodes this consists of, and how long is it ?
* What are the dimensions of the adjacency matrix of this graph, and is it symmetric and why / what does symmetric means ?
* All the above need to be answered through Python code on the Google Collab.


# Question 3, 33.333 points

* Describe briefly what is a Hamiltonian and what is an Eulerian graph. 
* Using the same graph / data as in Question 2, check whether it is Hamiltonian or Eulerian or both.
* In this graph, which is the most connected node (or more than one equally connected) as measured by the centrality metric.
* If the most connected node is removed, would the graph would break apart ? (answer this by looking at the graph visualization).
* Look into the functions available by networkx and write code to: return all neighboors of the most connected node, check if the graph has self loops, return a path between the most connected node and another one you choose
* Looks into the algorithms available by networkx and write code to: compute connectivity between all pairs of nodes (what format is the returned output), find number of cliques in the graph (use a couple of functions in that respect)
* All the above (except the 1st bullet point) need to be answered through Python code on the Google Collab.


